Rework deprovisioning docs to add do-not-evict (#1147)
aws/karpenter: website/content/en/docs/tasks/deprovisioning.md

weight: 10
---

Karpenter sets a Kubernetes [finalizer](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/finalizers/) on each node it provisions.
The finalizer specifies additional actions the Karpenter controller will take in response to a node deletion request.
These include:

* Marking the node as unschedulable, so no further pods can be scheduled there.
* Evicting all pods other than daemonsets from the node.
* Deleting the node from the Kubernetes cluster.

> * Terminating the instance from the cloud provider.

Reviewer: Can you move this to before deleting the node?

Author: Done.

* **Node expired**: Karpenter requests to delete the node after a set number of seconds, based on the provisioner `ttlSecondsUntilExpired`  value, from the time the node was provisioned. One use case for node expiry is to handle node upgrades. Old nodes (with a potentially outdated Kubernetes version or operating system) are deleted, and replaced with nodes on the current version (assuming that you requested the latest version, rather than a specific version).

    {{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
    Keep in mind that a small NodeExpiry results in a higher churn in cluster activity. So, for example, if a cluster
    brings up all nodes at once, all the pods on those nodes would fall into the same batching window on expiration.
    {{% /alert %}}
    
* **Node deleted**: You could use `kubectl` to manually remove a single Karpenter node:

    ```bash
    kubectl delete <nodename>
    ```

    Or delete all Karpenter nodes at once:

    ```bash

>     kubectl delete -l <provisioner label>

Reviewer: ```
# Delete all nodes owned any provisioner
kubectl delete nodes -l karpenter.sh/provisioner-name

# Delete all nodes owned by a specific provisioner
kubectl delete nodes -l karpenter.sh/provisioner-name=<NAME>
```

Author: Done.

 
    ```

Whether through node expiry or manual deletion, Karpenter seeks to follow graceful termination procedures as described in Kubernetes [Graceful node shutdown](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#graceful-node-shutdow) documentation.
If the Karpenter controller is removed or fails, the finalizers on the nodes are orphaned and will require manual removal.

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
By adding the finalizer, Karpenter improves the default Kubernetes process of node deletion.

> When you run `kubectl delete node` on a node without a finalizer, the node gets deleted in the API server but the instance keeps running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run `kubectl delete node` on a node without a finalizer, the node is deleted without triggering the finalization logic. The instance will continue running in EC2, even though there is no longer a node object for it. 
```

Author: Done.

The kubelet isn’t watching for its own existence, so if a node is deleted the kubelet doesn’t terminate itself.

> All the pod objects get deleted by a garbage collection process later, because the pods’ nodes are gone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the pod objects get deleted by a garbage collection process later, because the pods’ node is gone.
```

Author: Done.

{{% /alert %}}

## What can cause deprovisioning to fail?

There are a few cases where requesting to deprovision a Karpenter node will fail. These include Pod Disruption Budgets and pods that have the `do-not-evict` annotation set.

### Disruption budgets

> Karpenter respects Pod Disruption Budgets (PDBs) when provisioning nodes and can prevent a node from being deprovisioned to maintain those disruption budgets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Karpenter respects Pod Disruption Budgets (PDBs) by using a backoff retry eviction strategy. Pods will never be forcibly deleted, so pods that fail to shut down will prevent a node from deprovisioning.
```

Author: Done.
